now Solomon made a treaty with Pharaoh
king of Egypt and married Pharaoh's
daughter then he brought her to the City
of David until he had finished building
his own house and the house of the Lord
and the wall all around Jerusalem
meanwhile the people sacrificed at the
high places because there was no house
built for the name of the Lord until
those days and Solomon loved the Lord
walking in the statutes of his father
David except that he sacrificed and
burned incense of the high places now
the King went to Gibeon to sacrifice
there for that was the great high place
Solomon offered a thousand burnt
offerings on that altar at Gibeon the
Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by
night and God said ask what shall I give
you you have shown great mercy to your
servant David my father because he
walked before you in truth in
righteousness and in uprightness of
heart with you
you have continued this great kindness
for him and you have given him a son to
sit on his throne as it is this day now
o Lord my God you have made your servant
King instead of my father David but I am
a little child I do not know how to go
out or come in and your servant is in
the midst of your people whom you have
chosen a great people too numerous to be
numbered or counted therefore give to
your servant an understanding heart to
judge your people that I may discern
between good and evil for who is able to
judge this great people of yours the
speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had
asked this thing because you have asked
this thing and have not asked long life
for yourself nor have asked riches for
yourself nor have asked the life of your
enemies but have asked for yourself
understanding to discern justice behold
I have done according to your words see
I have given you a wise and
understanding heart so that there has
not been anyone like you before you nor
shall any like you arise after you and I
have also given you what you have not
asked both riches and honour so that
there shall not be anyone like you among
the kings all your days so if you walk
in my ways to keep my statutes and my
Commandments as your father David walked
then I will lengthen your days
when Solomon awoke and indeed it had
been a dream and he came to Jerusalem
and stood before the Ark of the Covenant
of the Lord offered our burnt offerings
offered peace offerings and made a feast
for all his servants now to women who
were harlots came to the King and stood
before him his woman and I dwell in the
same house and I gave birth while she
was in the house that it happened the
third day after I had given birth that
this woman also gave birth and we were
together no one was with us in the house
except the two of us in the house and
[Music]
this woman son died in the night because
she lay on him
so she arose in the middle of the night
and hook my son from my side well your
maidservant slept and laid him in her
bosom and laid her dead child in my
bosom
and when I rose in the morning to nurse
my son this was
did
but when I had examined him in the
morning indeed he was not my son whom I
had born oh but the living one is my son
and the dead one is your son
[Music]
but the dead one is your son everyone is
my son Russ Facebook before the king and
the King said the one says this is my
son who lives and your son is the dead
one and the other says no but your son
is the dead one and my son is the living
one bring me a sword so they brought a
sword before the king
divided the living child in two and give
half to one and half to the other when
the woman whose son was living spoke to
the king for she yearned with compassion
for her son give her the living child
and by no means kill him let him be
neither mine nor yours but divided him
so the king answered give the first
woman the living child and by no means
kill him
she is his mother
and all israel heard of the judgment
which the king had rendered and they
feared the king for they saw that the
wisdom of God was in him to administer
justice
[Music]